It is said that today is Mahaveer Jayanti, a very auspicious day.
Shri Mahavira resides on our Ida nadi and rules it.
And all the good or bad conditionings that are within us,
are corrected by Him.
And he has described about Hell, what hell is.
What happens when humans go to Hell,
and how they suffer.
and he has explained this in detail.
Buddha and Mahavira, both lived at the same time,
and both of them had a life of penance.
Both of them were princes.
And through their great penance and meditation,
they understood that when humans make mistakes,
and go to the left side, then how they suffer in Hell.
Hell can be experienced in this world itself now.
Even before death, man can experience it.
If he is very sinful
and keeps on committing sins,
and does not even try to avoid it,
and does not even realise that it is wrong.
So in these modern times, such people,
will be themselves destroyed from inside.
No external force is required for this (destruction).
Because, they become so foolish,
that they themselves arrange to destroy themselves.
Some of them think they are quite perfect
and nobody can harm them.
All of them will be destroyed in "Satyayuga".
Not only that,
but those who will not rise above the human awareness,
I wonder, how many of them will be able to live in this world.
Because so many demonic forces have now become active,
and they attract humans in such a way,
that they get caught in it,
and it becomes very difficult to escape from it.
Sahaja Yoga is the only way through which you can escape this swamp,
and lead yourself to a higher level.
You can also pull along many others with you,
and save their lives.
Whatever Mahavir ji explained,
I don’t know how many Jains understand it.
And they have made a mockery out of him.
They added things He never said and made a mockery out of it.
This has happened with all the great incarnations.
So, if people have done the same with Shri Mahavira,
then what can be said, who can be blamed?
In Sahaja Yoga, we respect Mahavir ji very much,
and we know that He is the incarnation of Shri Bhairavanath.
Not only this, He took birth many times
and later came as Hussain,
among Hassan and Hussain (sons of Shri Fatima).
In the Bible,
Bhairavanath is addressed as Saint-George by some
and Saint-Michael by some others.
It is very surprising that London, which we believe is the Heart,
has Saint-George as its angel,
which means that they also follow Bhairavanath - which is correct.
Because, if Shri Shiva resides in the Heart,
then presence of Bhairavanath is important there.
There are so many things which if we read with understanding,
then we find them all interrelated,
and their relationship somehow got established on its own.
In the power of Sahaja, you all get overwhelmed,
and you enjoy it -  this is a big thing for Me.
In this world, everyone should live happily and joyfully.
God has created this universe for you
so you should enjoy it. what else do you want?
Within you, there are so many powers,
and you are using them
and you also share this joy with others.
In this way, our Sahaj family should grow very much.
And we should save as many as possible.!
Especially, we should put attention on our children,
because an immoral culture has started these days,
and the children are getting affected.
So, we should pay attention to them and take care of them.
If they are established in Sahaja, they will not get lost.
In Delhi’s environment, Sahaja Yoga has established nicely.
It is a very nice thing.
I think, Sahaja Yoga is especially needed in Delhi the most,
because here it is all the politics and governance.
Slowly, through you, the Param Chaitanya will get activated.
I am sure that by the time I come next year,
many people would have taken to Sahaja Yoga.
There is one thing, I feel so many Sahaja Yogis are there,
so many of Sahaja Yogis,
that I don’t even know them by face.
In a way, I can easily figure out by their face,
but I don't know by who is who?
So you all should make a photo album for Me.
And through the album you can send Me one photo of each.
I usually have the habit of seeing albums in the morning.
People from many countries have come here, some from Maharashtra too.
I have arranged an album for you here,
so, please give a photo with name
and when you took your Realization.
It will be very good.
Everybody can do that.
All are insisting, that next year also Birthday should be celebrated here.
But, it should not be celebrated in such a big way. It is too much.
Celebration should be even bigger than this, Shri Mataji.
Many miracles happened during the celebration!
It was very nice and many other nice things happened.
I have been thinking
that how our progress in Art should be.
I have given copies of that to Yogi Mahajan Ji.
What we have achieved in Maharashtra we can do it here also.
So that we develop creativity,
and our artistic state becomes better,
like theatre and many other things, I have written it all.
It is need that we should work in multiple fields.
Sahaja Yoga is not just for you, it is meant for the whole world.
It is not just for the sake of spirituality,
but to establish spirituality into this world.
Like Kabir Das has said “Mann mamata aye”.
It means: "I will mix the left side into the five elements" -
meaning on the right side.
The five elements are on the right side,
and "mann mamata" (emotions) are on the left.
So the meaning is mixing left with the right side.
So, all our feelings and our art we will mix into the five elements.
So all the art
and the creative power of our mind,
our creativity,
we should try every possible way to express it, to manifest it.
This will be a very special achievement.
When Sahaja Yogis do anything, there is special meaning to it.
In other words all the big artists of the world were Realised souls
If they were not Realised souls,
their art would have not prospered till date.
Any art which was not created by a Realised soul
has been destroyed, finished
and nobody has any respect for it.
So, there is no field
in which we cannot enter.
In any direction, whatever you like to do,
in your respective field of interest
you all should think: "How can I bring spirituality in it?".
And it is very important to bring spirituality into it,
because, spirituality is not limited just to you all.
So, in this modern era,
spirituality is not confined to a single saint
nor to a single group,
but to the whole world.
So, we should see this form of spirituality everywhere.
And I hope that after sometime,
we'll find that the way we live, the way we talk,
every aspect of life is influenced by Sahaja.
When this influence gets established within us,
then people recognize that it is a special thing.
When Sahaj gets established within, many things change.
You see how miracles happen and everything happens.
We should not limit just to us but make it happen everywhere.
You have to show it to others in every possible dimension.
And this is very easily possible.
You can see they are themselves making the music, composing it.
And if you take this to the villages,
like say today bhajans are going to happen
people will come and you can sing in front of them.
There is no other better way of spreading Sahaja Yoga.
In Maharashtra, all the spiritual spreading is via music.
So, like this, if you give some time every Sunday, morning or evening,
take a group of people to villages,
sing bhajans, perform plays
and this way people will understand who are we,
and what we are doing.
In this aspect, the foreign yogis have prepared very nice plays
and have also played very nice music.
Especially they have started liking Indian music very much,
and their interest in their music decreased.
They make very high standard Indian Music.
Very high class.
So, we should also prepare such a high standard of music
that we can show it to the public.
Gradually you will see that
your creativity will show it's full effect.
And then, these people who are preparing plays are normal people.
But we are Sahaja yogis, we have within us many powers,
with which we can explain to people, show and introduce spirituality.
So, today I am saying this, that this left side
reveals the feelings of music and art.
Even though Saraswati has created all the Swaras [notes],
but the emotions it contains, the bhakti it contains,
is due to the blessings of Mahavir Ji.
Mahavir has really worked hard for this
because he scared people
that if they go on the wrong path, they will go to hell,
and on taking this correct path, they will be overwhelmed.
And you all are actually witnessing it!
Like this, we all should increase our bhakti
and increasing bhakti in us is the work of Shri Mahavira.
I am happy that on this day of Mahavira Jayanti all this has happened,
and you all are doing the job of Mahavira Ji.